docs/_docs/00-overview/00-index.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: Overview
permalink: /docs/
---
## Overview

I started this project to build a reasonably priced, desk-mounted, fully functional flight simulator panel that I could use as a training device in conjunction with real-world flight training.

In addition to using for flight training, building my own panel was a good excuse to start a new hardware project, add some new tools to my workbench (laser cutter), and learn more about aircraft subsystems and components along the way.

The content here primarily serves as a means to organize and document the project and to share it with the flight sim community.

This project is a work in progress and new content will be added as construction progresses.

{% include image.html file="status.jpg" %}

## Status

As of March 2018, the panel is in a flyable state with a fully operating [instrument panel](/docs/instrument-panel/), [switch panel](/docs/switch-panel/), [throttle/mixture controls](/docs/throttle-mixture-panel/), [flap control](/docs/flap-control-panel/), [trim wheel](/docs/trim-wheel), [parking brake](/docs/parking-brake), and [yoke](/docs/yoke-mount/).

I am currently working on the [avionics stack](/docs/avionics/) and have made solid progress on a [Garmin GNS 530](/docs/avionics/garmin-gns-530/), a [Garmin GNS 430](/docs/avionics/garmin-gns-430), and a Garmin GMA 340 audio panel.

{% include image.html file="../avionics/avionics_view.jpg" %}

{% include image.html file="../avionics/avionics.jpg" %}

Commit message:

Added documentation for the Bendix King transponder, updated status

docs/_docs/00-overview/00-index.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: Overview
permalink: /docs/
---
## Overview

I started this project to build a reasonably priced, desk-mounted, fully functional flight simulator panel that I could use as a training device in conjunction with real-world flight training.

In addition to using for flight training, building my own panel was a good excuse to start a new hardware project, add some new tools to my workbench (laser cutter), and learn more about aircraft subsystems and components along the way.

The content here primarily serves as a means to organize and document the project and to share it with the flight sim community.

This project is a work in progress and new content will be added as construction progresses.

{% include image.html file="status.jpg" %}

## Status

As of May 2018, the panel is in a flyable state with a fully operating [instrument panel](/docs/instrument-panel/), [switch panel](/docs/switch-panel/), [throttle/mixture controls](/docs/throttle-mixture-panel/), [flap control](/docs/flap-control-panel/), [trim wheel](/docs/trim-wheel), [parking brake](/docs/parking-brake), and [yoke](/docs/yoke-mount/).

I am currently working on the [avionics stack](/docs/avionics/). I have a working [Garmin GNS 530](/docs/avionics/garmin-gns-530/) and [Garmin GNS 430](/docs/avionics/garmin-gns-430), a partially functioning Garmin GMA 340 audio panel, and a fully functioning [Bendix-King KT76C Transponder](/docs/avionics/bendix-king-kt76c).

{% include image.html file="../avionics/avionics_view.jpg" %}

{% include image.html file="../avionics/avionics.jpg" %}
